## 2-12-26 Lab

Today's lab is designed to for us to get an idea of your current ability to "hack" a project (e.g. some data analytics) quickly. 

We will assign groups, and over 1.5 hours, we want you to make 1 interesting figure, table or finding, to share with everyone after we regroup. 

Ideally you will work on finding some data that bears on the interesting question you brought to class today. 

However, if you get stuck on this, the figure, table, or finding should in some way relate to the our reading themes of "how will AI impact the economy or society?" or "how does AI work and how should it be managed?" You might also choose one of the other students' interesting questions to work on. 

---

As we work, you are encouraged to use any tool you are familiar with:
-  google search
-  Excel
-  Python
-  Stata
-  Cursor
-  Any online chatbot

Your final submission should take the form of 1-2 slides, at least one of which has an original figure, table or result. Professor Kurz will demonstrate how to incorporate images into markdown. 


---

### Group Assignments

We have have been quasi-randomly assigned to the following groups:

-  Lewis Campbell and Manuel Lara and Amelia Hammer
-  Matt Becker and Sayde Pianko
-  Jordan Ehrman and Francis Kurian
-  Matt Tonks and Alexxis Saucedo
-  Alex Zermeno and Abigail Reyes
-  Carlo Castro and Colton Wedell


---
## Data Sets

You may use any data set you can find online, but here are some suggestions, if you get stuck:

-  This famous *Science* paper (GTPs are GPTs: https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.adj0998) first estimated the 'exposure' of different occupations to LLMs. You can find the data underlying the paper here:  https://github.com/openai/GPTs-are-gpts
    - The most novel file here is 'full_labelset.tsv' which gives the 'exposure' of different tasks in different occupations to LLM change
    - Other data sets give wages and employment growth for different occupations + other job characteristics. 
    - One exercise you might try is:
      - Choosing a certain occupations you are interested in (e.g. those related to data analytics), or think will change a lot or be automated, and see how it is evaluated compared to other occupations

-  This eval by OpenAI (GDPVal) https://openai.com/index/gdpval/ evaluates different frontier models by their ability to beat human experts at a range of economically valuable tasks. 
    - You might extract data, either from the associated git, or directly from the figures in the paper on a pair of models or focusing on a particular industry and:
        - Use the industry level results as part of an evaluation of how that industry is likely to change, perhaps compared to others
        - Choose a specific model and speculate why it is better on some tasks than others, especially if the relationship between a pair of models is not one of strict dominance
 
     





